I have been trying out multiple different editors for web development, programs like Dreamweaver, Atom, Brackets, etc. The best I've found so far is Microsoft's Visual Studio Code (VSCode). It's a general purpose text editor that is a jack of all trades. It has a minimal base that you can extend quite a lot with extensions. You can add support for new programming languages, hardware, themes, and many other things. Specifically for HTML and CSS though, it comes well adjusted for web development by default. In this post I want to share a couple things that will help you develop websites in VSCode, as well as why it's such a useful tool.

## What's wrong with Dreamweaver?

Dreamweaver is a great tool if you are familiar with other adobe products such as Photoshop or Illustrator. It presents editing websites in a more graphical manner, allowing you to focus on design more than code. My problem with that approach is that often Dreamweaver doesn't do what I want it to, and I have to dive into the code anyways. Because of this inefficient switch between graphical design and code, I find it much easier to work directly with the code. When editing the code I can make sure it does exactly what I intend. I can make sure that classes are applied properly, items are nested, the code is readable, and no superfluous paragraph tags get added by accident.

## Why not just use Dreamweaver in code mode?

This is more a matter of personal preference. Dreamweaver is very much an Adobe tool. It retains the same model of panels and menus packed to the brim with options. Many of these are helpful, such as the CSS Designer or the DOM, but the sheer number of options displayed on screen at the same time is distracting to me. Also, because of all these features, the application feel sluggish on my 2017 era laptop. I could try and reign Dreamweaver in and remove parts of the interface reflect my workflow more, but that takes considerable effort and would not solve the performance issues.

## Enter VSCode

VSCode is a text editor tailored specifically for programmers. It's widely used in the industry and garners a huge support base. VSCode by default is very minimal, but it contains crucial features that many other simple text editors are lacking in. [Intellisense](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/intellisense) is one such feature. It allows code completion while you type, which is essential to any programmers tool belt. It saves large amounts of typing which aside from speeding up the development process, can prevent typos by limiting the superfluous code that a programmer would otherwise have to type. Dreamweaver includes a form of intellisense, but it is not quite as robust as the implementation that VSCode uses. Other features implemented in VSCode include advanced refactoring, search and replace, debugging, version control. These wealth of options make life a lot easier, and they are just not implemented as well or missing completely in Dreamweaver.

## Configuring VSCode

The only thing that I miss from Dreamweaver is the DOM panel. It is a very handy tool, but I can live without it by just looking at the code itself. The other big selling point of Dreamweaver is the live preview that it gives. This preview allows you to quickly see changes and catch errors early. VSCode implements this feature through the use of an extension, and does it much better in my opinion. The extension [Live Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer) by Ritwick Dey creates a local web server that runs on your machine. It opens your website in a browser, and simulates what your website would look like in the real world. It updates whenever you save a file, but can be made to update almost instantly by enabling auto saving in VSCode. With this extension you can keep VSCode on one side, while viewing a real world preview of your website in the browser of your choice. There are also many other extensions you can install to extend your editing capabilities even further. You can also enable more superfluous extensions to make the editor your own, such as my favorite theme [One Dark Pro](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=zhuangtongfa.Material-theme) by binaryify, or changing the keybindings to match my most used Java IDE, Intellij with [Intellij IDEA Keybindings](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=k--kato.intellij-idea-keybindings) by Keisuke Kato. The main point I'm getting at is that VSCode is like a malleable base for you to mold to your specific needs and tastes.

## Closing Thoughs

The best tool is often the one you have. If you are proficient in Dreamweaver and enjoy the way it works, then you have no need to find anything else. But if you find yourself frustrated, VSCode may be a good option for you to try.